In this video I'll introduce you to some of the fundamental concepts of the NSX edge and we're going
to be spending a lot of time in this course working our way through the NSX edge NSX edge is kind of
like the Swiss Army knife of NSX and that it does so many different things.
So we're going to be spending a lot of time focusing on the edge.
And one of the primary functions of the NSX edge is going to be around or it's going to act as our north
south router.
So what do I mean by North-South.
Well essentially the NSX are just going to be our egress point or if traffic needs to get to some sort
of external network outside of our NSX domain it's going to flow over and add sex edge and we can use
OSPF BGP or static routes to build the routing table for the NSX.
And we'll take a look at all those different protocols and kind of what the benefits and disadvantages
of each are.
The NSX edge can also act as our perimeter firewall.
So because of the placement of the NSX edge it makes a great perimeter firewall to block malicious traffic
as it's coming into the NSX domain.
Now this doesn't mean that it's the perimeter firewall for your data center.
Right you're still going to need a physical firewall at the edge of your data center.
But this is an additional added firewall at the border of the NSX domain.
The NSX edge can also act as a load balancer it can be utilized to spread traffic out across a group
of virtual machines that serve a similar purpose.
We can also enable different kinds of VPN on the NSX including a layer 3 eyepiece like VPN Allaire to
VPN or even a remote access solution called the SSL VPN.
And then finally the NSX supports DHP and DNS relay as well.
So we want to think of the NSX edge as the border between NSX and the external physical network.
Think of it like this.
Let's say you have an internal network that interconnects all of your ESX host thats called our underlying
network and we see that at the bottom of the screen here the underlay provides connectivity within the
NSX domain.
It provides connectivity across all of these ESX hosts that are part of my NSX domain.
Now if I need to go outside this east west routing domain thats where the NSX edge comes in.
Maybe theres physical servers in my environment or I need to connect to the Internet.
Thats where the edge comes in.
So let's walk through this diagram and differentiate between east west and north south routing within
NSX.
And this diagram has a lot going on.
So lets take a moment to just review it quickly.
We see two ESX I hosts ESX 0 1 and 0 2 and I've got a couple of logical switches created we have logical
switch the 95000 to and I've got one virtual machine connected to that logical switch.
I've also got a logical switch called the transit logical switch and you can see that the logical switch
is connected to my distributed logical router and it's also connected to the NSX edge.
Right so this is kind of a special purpose logical switch that's going to give us connectivity to the
NSX atch
and we can see here that the agist connected to an external router probably a physical router and we
can see at the bottom we have the taps on each of our ESX hosts that provide the VX LAN encapsulation
and decaff solution functions.
So now let's assume that VM one generates some sort of traffic some kind of traffic that's destined
for something outside of our routing domain.
So maybe somebody logged into VM one and typed and trayner tests.
So now this traffic is bound for some external network.
So here comes this packet and it's going to flow onto the logical switch and hit the default gateway
for that virtual machine.
And the default gateway for the VM is the distributed logical router.
Now the DLR has a routing table.
The dealer knows that if it wants to reach the 10.0 1.1 network it needs to go out a VX LAN lyfe that's
connected to that network and the DLR probably also has a routing table entry that says for everything
else for all external traffic routed out this interface connected to this transit network.
So at this point the job of the distributed logical router is done.
But there's still more routing that needs to happen.
Our east west routing is complete so the NSX average has an interface on this transit network just like
the DLR does.
And this is the destination MAC that the distributed logical router has forwarded this packet to when
the DLR received that packet and analyzed the destination and determined that the destination was out
here in the external network it forward it towards the MAC address of the NSX.
Out onto the x Lanne five thousand three
right well now this frame still needs to get from host ESX 0 1 2 6 0 2.
So at this point the frame will be encapsulated within a VAXen hatter and will flow over my underlying
network and they get from Host 1 to host to
heresie traversing the underlying network arriving on VNA five thousand three at the destination host.
And that's the logical switch that the NSX edge is connected to.
So now finally our packet can arrive at the NSX edge and get routed out to the external network in the
end like such has its own routing table.
And it knows to get to any external networks it has a certain interface that's an uplink interface out
to the physical world.
So little about that packet towards the external network where the Internet is and it can get the train
or test dot com that we.
So now we've seen North South vs. east west routing right.
They're routing tables of the DLR and of the NSX edge are very different.
If we want to route to some external network anything out of our NSX domain that's called North-South
and that's where the NSX comes in.
But if we're simply routing among virtual machines connected to different logical switches or even virtual
machines connected to a distributed port group that the DLR is connected to that's east west routing
and that's most efficiently handled by the distributed logical router.
So the NSX can come in four different form factors.
It's a virtual appliance.
And when you're deploying the NSX that you can choose what size you want to make it.
Now you can deploy a compact NSX edge which has one virtual CPO and 512 megabytes of memory.
Now that's simply what the virtual machine is allocated.
It doesn't mean that it's going to necessarily use all those resources but that's what it's going to
be configured for.
And we've got the large form factor which has an extra virtual CPO and 1 gig of memory.
The quad Larch which has four virtual Seip use and a gig of memory and the extra large which has a virtual
spews use and 8 gigs of memory and once you deploy the NSX adj you can change the size later on if you
want to.
But that process involves basically you're replacing the edge gateway.
You don't need to rebuild the configuration or anything like that.
But there is an outage involved if you want to change the form factor of the NSX Sache.
It essentially migrates the configuration to a new virtual appliance.
So just be aware that whatever you choose you're not necessarily stuck with.
But if you want to get to a different form factor it's going to be service impacting
and you'll choose the appropriate NSX at form factor based on the number of features that you're utilizing
and the number of connections that you expect.
And as we kind of go through the next few lessons we'll talk about a lot of these features and I'll
point out some of the features that are more resource intensive that may justify a larger form factor
for the NSX Hach.
So as time goes on those decisions will probably be made a little bit more clear to you as to what form
factor makes sense for your environment.
Interview the NSX edge is our Swiss Army knife or it's the Swiss Army knife of NSX providing a router
firewall load balancer IP secte VPN solution Lehre to VPN solution SSL VPN solution and a DHC P and
DNS relay.
We're going to do lessons on just about all of these features as we work our way through this course.
We also saw how the NSX edge acts as the boundary between the NSX and external network.
This means that the NSX is going to be performing our North-South routing routing between the NSX edge
domain and the external network.